My gay guide to dealing with ex's.

1. We all know emotions are for pussies. Unfortunately, it's not like you can turn them on and off. Being emotional is inherently a bad state since it makes you act irrationally, even during post-nut clarity.

2. Empathy is an emotional response that allows us as humans to ‘feel’ what other people are going through. It is not to be confused with compassion (or sometimes referred to as sympathy), which is feeling for someone, rather than feeling with them.
Your ex doesn't want you to feel empathy, if anything she wants sympathy.
You don't need to feel empathy with a child fearing thunder to calm it down, only sympathy.
A doctor or a psychologist would not be able to do their job if they were empathetic and are trying to feel the pain of a patient. If you think that's the point of therapy you're missing the point (also it's manipulative af).
You can feel concerned about starving people without having to experience starvation, etc.

3. The realisation that you can train both states of mind. If you focus intently on feeling empathetic it leads to increased activation in the insula and anterior cingulate cortex. Compassion training on the other hand leads to activation in the medial orbitofrontal cortex and ventral striatum. Note that feeling empathy isn't bad, because it is the first step to feel compassion. You first need to realise how bad it feels to then accurately feel sympathy. However, sympathy should always be a positive feeling. Indulging in sympathy should feel good, otherwise you're doing it wrong. It is characterized by feelings of warmth, concern and care for the other, as well as a strong motivation to improve the other’s well-being.

4. Realise that empathy is irrational and usually very biased. There is always someone who deserves more sympathy (nobody deserves empathy). It just makes you irrational. If you still can't overcome the bias go and have sex with women other than your ex and realise that there's a ton of women who have their own issues that are worth devoting time to (and should flip the bias).
